Document revision: 3 (last update: 2018-05-21) ([View changelog](https://github.com/BunsenLabs/ToS_PrivacyPolicy/commits/master/forums.bunsenlabs.org.mkd))

  1. [General Guidelines](#general-guidelines)
  2. [Spam and Abuse Policy](#spam-and-abuse-policy)
  3. [Privacy Policy](#privacy-policy)
  4. [Staff](#staff)

## General guidelines

-   The language of conversation is any flavour of English.
-   Be excellent to each other!
-   Do not use abusive or obscene language.
-   Ad-hominem attacks are not allowed.
-   Be patient and tactful towards other members.
-   If you are seeking help, make sure to have done your fair share of
    homework to the best of your ability by searching the forums or the
    internet before wasting other\'s time.
-   Keep individual threads on-topic and do not work towards derailing
    discussions. Notorious trolls will be banned.

### Registration

-   Please make sure to choose a strong password you are not already
    using elsewhere.

### Posting style guide

-   Try to use good grammar and spelling, and make your contributions as
    concise as possible. Remember that English is not the first language
    of many members.
-   Make yourself familiar with the available BBCode formatting options.
    A comprehensive guide [is available](/help.php#bbcode).
-   Use \[code\] tags when pasting code or configurations into your
    post. For extremely long chunks of code, consider using a pastebin
    service. We recommend using
    [paste.debian.net](https://paste.debian.net).
-   Do not embed images larger than 250x250px into posts, use thumbnails
    linking to a hosted image instead. [scrot.moe](https://scrot.moe) is
    run by a community member, ad-free and nice.
-   Quoting long posts in their entirety is considered poor forum
    etiquette. Please edit the \"quotes\" to the points of interest you
    are referring to.

## Spam and abuse policy

-   Spam of any kind is strictly forbidden. This includes the vocal
    promotion of your own business. Spammers will be permanently banned without ado.
-   Any other violation of the forum rules may result in a permanent or
    temporary ban.

## Privacy policy

We strive to operate BunsenLabs services in compliance with the rules of
the European Union's General Data Protection Rules. By accepting these
rules, you consent to our your personal information being recorded to
the extent described below. Our records of your personal data are kept
as minimal and insignificant as possible as to enable the operation of
our forums.bunsenlabs.org service only.

By clicking "Accept", you consent to this privacy policy.

### Request logging at the load balancer level

Every HTTP request to the forums.bunsenlabs.org domain is logged in the
following form and stored for **one day** in order to ensure that issues
with request processing can be traced and resolved. IP addresses
(`remote address`) are stored anonymized in any case (IPv4: lower 16
bits are set to zero as in 127.127.0.0, IPv6: lower 48 bits are set to zero
as in fe80:24ed::).

```json
{
  "time": "2018-05-04T13:17:47+02:00",
  "status": 200,
  "bytes_sent": 808,
  "bytes_received": 345,
  "request_method": "GET",
  "request_uri": "/",
  "http_user_agent": "Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64; rv:59.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/59.0",
  "scheme": "https",
  "server_name": "forums.bunsenlabs.org",
  "server_protocol": "HTTP/1.1",
  "uri": "/index.php",
  "host": "forums.bunsenlabs.org",
  "connection": 2198229,
  "remote_addr": "1.2.0.0",
  "remote_port": 44740,
  "server_port": 443
}
```

### Data used by the forum software

We use the FluxBB forum software to operate our forums. The software
requires a certain set of personal information. Other pieces of
information are optional and may be published by the user.

See below for a list of the mandated data and unconditionally stored
metadata and the respective purpose of the data bits.

#### Mandatory user-provided data

  - Nickname: Handle defining the log in name and published when
   posting on the message board.

  - Email address: Required for manual account activation as an
    abuse countermeasure. Optionally used to subscribe the
    user to notifications/subscriptions.

Any other data the user provides by configuring his account in addition
to the above (preferences, signatures, real names, website addresses,
etc) is not essential but nevertheless stored in the backend database.

#### Collected metadata

  - IP address the user registered from: Used to lock out
    so-called banned IP ranges and IP addresses from registering
    in order to block abusive activity. Stored indefinitely.

  - IP address for each post: Used for blocking abusive posters.

#### Banned users

If you abuse our board (using the board in a manner which violates the
terms set forth in this document), your IP address, email address and
handle will be stored in perpetuity to prevent you from using our board.
This is necessary since message board abuse is rampant and a huge
problem for small communities such as ours, as moderating all use of the
board is a very time-consuming task, and time is a scarce resource.

#### Third-party services using your data

We do not transmit your personal data to services other than listed
below.

##### Google Captcha

During the registration process, a Google Captcha is used to ensure that
an actual human is signing up and not a bot. Your browser will request
data from and transmit data to Google's servers. In the context of this
interaction, Google's [privacy policy](https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/)
applies to its full extent.

You'll be shown the text of this privacy policy before proceeding to the
page the captcha is on (by clicking "Accept"), so if you do not consent
to Google's policy, please close or return from your current browser
view. You can optionally contact the administrators at
admin@bunsenlabs.org and request that an account be created for you
manually so that you can avoid using Captcha.

**Note that none of the details you entered into the registration form
are actually being sent to the captcha service.**

##### Sendgrid.com SMTP service

All email traffic send to your from our forum system goes through the
SMTP-as-a-service platform SendGrid.com. As such, SendGrid's [privacy
policy and terms of service](https://sendgrid.com/policies/privacy/)
apply in this context.

Due to the nature of the email message format, while email messages may
be encrypted in transit (our submission IS encrypted, whether your
email provider accepts encrypted SMTP traffic depends on their specific
configuration), email messages may include and SendGrid systems may see
but not store or act on the following information:

  - Preliminary passwords or reset-password links;
  - Any message post in any forum or topic you're subscribed to;
  - Any private message sent to you using the private messaging
    subsystem.
  - Your email address.

Only the first registration email is mandatory. You will not receive any
other emails unless you explicitly opt-in to receive emails, optionally
with message or post contents, on the privacy page in your personal
settings.

#### Deleting your data

  - Any personal or profile data you submit to our service is
    immediately submitted to our database and will overwrite or delete
    any previous information. Please use this method to purge any such
    data by yourself. The old information will be part of our disaster
    recovery backups for **two more days** and then be deleted without a
    way to recover the data. All backups are stored in an encrypted form
    using a secure 4096-bit RSA key and are only accessible by the forum
    administrators.

  - Private messages (PMs) you sent to other users can be deleted from
    your inbox and outbox in the same manner.

  - For other kinds of deletion requests please contact the forum
    administrators at admin@bunsenlabs.org directly.

  - Note that due to the nature of this message board, even after deleting your
    personal information, any information you published may already have
    been seen, archived, copied or textually referenced by other
    messages on this board or any other internet service. **Everything
    you post here should be thought of to have been announced to the
    world**. Please do not use our board if you are not OK with that!

#### Disclaimer regarding linked content

-   The administrators of this board are not responsible in any way for
    consequences of any sort arising from following links to 3rd-party
    resources and websites placed on this board.
-   The administrators are not responsible for user-generated content
    which infringes upon the rights of third parties or which is
    illegal, according to German law. The administrators and moderators
    will however take action to remove and prevent the repeated posting
    of such content as soon as any issue in that regard comes to their
    notice.
-   In order to protect your privacy, our server sends the HTTP header
    'referrer-policy: same-origin' to your browser to instruct it to not
    leak the referrer to third-party sites you visit by clicking links
    on our board. Note however that this policy may not be supported by
    the browser you're using and therefore should not be taken for
    granted.

## Staff

-   You can contact the forum administrator by sending an email to
    admin@bunsenlabs.org.
-   Forum administrators are
      * johnraff
      * twoion (aka earlybird)
-   Forum moderators are
      * Head_on_a_Stick
      * Unia
      * damo
      * hhh
      * tknomanzr
